---
title: "A Big-Data Driven Approach to Analyzing and Modeling Human Mobility Trend under Non-Pharmaceutical Interventions during COVID-19 Pandemic"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2021-02-01-talk-3
venue: "2020 Transportation Research Board's 100th Annual Meeting (TRB)"
date: 2021-02-01
location: "Washington D.C., U.S."
---
**Abstract**: During the unprecedented coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) challenge, non-pharmaceutical interventions became a widely adopted strategy to limit physical movements and interactions to mitigate virus transmissions. For situational awareness and decision-support, quickly available yet accurate big-data analytics about human mobility and social distancing is invaluable to agencies and decision-makers. This paper presents a big-data-driven analytical framework that ingests terabytes of data daily and quantitatively assesses the human mobility trend during COVID-19. Using mobile device location data of over 100 million monthly active samples in the United States, the study successfully measures human mobility with three main metrics at the county level: daily average number of trips per person; daily average person-miles traveled; and daily percentage of residents staying home. A set of generalized additive mixed models is employed to disentangle the policy effect on human mobility from other confounding effects including virus effect, socio-demographic effect, weather effect, and spatiotemporal autocorrelation. Results reveal the policy plays a limited, time-decreasing, and region-specific effect on human movement. The stay-at-home orders only contribute to a 3%-7.3% decrease in human mobility, while the reopening guidelines lead to a 1%-4.7% mobility increase. Results also indicate a reasonable spatial heterogeneity among the U.S. counties, wherein the number of confirmed COVID-19 cases, income levels, age and racial distribution play important roles. The data informatics generated by the framework are made available to the public for a timely understanding of mobility trends and policy effects, as well as for time-sensitive decision support to further contain the spread of the virus.
