---
title: "Joint Analysis of Scooter Sharing and Bikesharing Usage: A Structural Equation Modeling Approach"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2021-02-01-talk-2
venue: "2020 Transportation Research Board's 100th Annual Meeting (TRB)"
date: 2021-02-01
location: "Washington D.C., U.S."
---
**Abstract**: Shared dockless scooters are expanding across the world rapidly, serving as a strong alternative to the bikesharing system. Limited studies shed light on the usage characteristics of this emerging service, and relatively little is known about its similarities and differences with bikesharing. This study compares the key factors related to bikesharing and shared scooters as well as their relationships in the city of Minneapolis. A set of negative binomial regressions are built under the framework of structural equation modeling to specify causal mechanisms between bikesharing and scooter sharing across different periods, controlling for exogenous variables including social demographics, transportation facilities, land use, and spatial features. Findings confirm a significantly positive direct effect from bikesharing to scooter sharing, while the reverse effect is insignificant. Besides, bikesharing and scooter sharing are both more popular in areas with higher population density, higher income, more youngsters, and more commercial/public/mixed-use lands. Compared with scooter sharing, bikesharing users ride more for commuting, rely more on bicycle lanes, and have a more stable complementary relationship with transit. Findings are essential to help different shared micromobility services find their corresponding niches, as well as to guide the sustainable development of the mixed shared micromobility system.
